>> Kyle Simpson: To define closure from
an observational perspective, rather than
from a whether it exists or not sort of
a perspective, the academic question.
Here's that definition, and
as far as I'm concerned,
this is the right answer to that
interview question from here forward,
until somebody tells me a different
answer, a different definition that
is more distilled than this,
which I haven't come across.
This is the right answer to that question,
what is closure?
Closure is when a function
is able to remember and
access its lexical scope,
the variables outside of itself,
so-called free variables, when it's
able to access that lexical scope,
even when that function
executes in a different scope.
Let's take that first part.
That closure is able to
access its lexical scope.
We already know that.
That is lexical scope in itself, is that
a function can reference variables outside
of itself and it just goes up
the scope chain to find it.
The second part is the critical part,
and without these two parts,
you don't have closure.
You have to have both.
Without the second part,
it's just lexical scope.
With the second part of this definition,
which is, even when the function
is executed in a different scope,
now we start to see something interesting.
Cuz when you take a function and
you pass it as a callback, or
you take a function and return it back,
and the scope that it was originally
defined in has otherwise,
at least conceptually, gone away.
And we would think, normally,
it's been garbage collected, it's done.
But there's a function that survived
that was defined within that scope.
It turns out that the scope
didn't go away at all.
It turns out that this function is able to
hold on to a reference to that scope, and
wherever you pass the function,
it continues to have access to that.
That doesn't happen by accident.
That's not magical, that's closure.
The preservation, the linkage back to
the original scope where it was defined,
no matter where you pass that value,
no matter where it executes,
it retains that value.
It preserves that scope.
That's called closure.
So let's take a look at
a couple of examples,
ones that you'll probably
recognize right off the bat.
Surely, all of you have done a timer at
some point or another, a set timeout or
a set interval, and I bet when you
passed in a function to your timer,
it referenced some variable
outside of itself.
What's also probably true is you never
stopped to consider, how does that work?
Because at the time that
this function waitASec runs,
the ask function has already finished, and
the variable question which its
closed over should have gone away.
But it didn't go away
because closure preserved it,
so-called the waitASec function is
closed over the variable question.
That's a closure, okay?
Now, academically, they think about
closure on a per variable basis,
meaning only the variables
that I'm closed over,
those are the only ones
that are preserved.
Technically, it's possible
that that could be the case.
Certainly, that would only
be what you could observe.
But I would caution you to
consider that generally speaking,
at least the latest information that I
have, JavaScript engines essentially
implement closure as a linkage to the
entire scope, not on a per variable basis.
Technically, they should be able to
close over individual variables or
remove variables that aren't closed over,
but
essentially, as far as I'm aware,
closure is on a per scope basis.
So if you have a variable that's holding
on to a really big piece of data and
then you create a closure,
even if you're not referencing it,
that data may stick around and
not get garbage collected.
So it's best to assume that closure, even
though academically it's per variable,
it's best to assume closure
is a scope-based operation.
And it's not something you have
to do special with a function,
other than you just have to
access a variable outside and
then you have to pass
the function somewhere.
That's all you have to do to observe
the idea that closure exists.
Think about what it would be like if you
had a function that didn't have closure.
If you're in a language that had first
class functions, lexical scope, but
didn't have closure,
you'd pass this function somewhere, and
all over sudden,
it would forget about all its variables.
Wouldn't be that helpful, would it?
It's almost as if closure falls out as
a necessary requirement, a necessary
third component of a lexically scoped
language with first class functions.
If you have those two,
you're gonna have closure because
it wouldn't make sense not to.
That's what closure is.
And whether you do timers or not,
you've certainly all written or
at least accessed code
that returns functions or
passes them around in callbacks,
and that's the exact same thing.
If I returned a function here that is
closed over the question variable,
then even though the ask function
has finished, by line 11,
we still have access to that variable.
Not a snapshot of the variable,
but the actual variable itself.
That's called closure.